# Keystore management

## Key types

Key types can be conditionally divided into two groups: **agents** and **validators**.

**Agents** keys are used for linking content, sending liquid tokens, delegating, redelegating, and undelegating tokens to validators. Also, withdrawing rewards, voting and creating multisig accounts.

- `cyber` a.k.a. address. Cyberdcli application key.
  - Derived from account mnemonic phrase, generated by `cyberdcli keys add`
  - e.g. `cyber15h6vd5f0wqps26zjlwrc6chah08ryu4hzzdwhc`

- `cyberpub` the public key of an account address. It is used for generating multisig addresses.  
  - Derived from account mnemonic phrase, generated by `cyberdcli keys add`
  - e.g. `cyberpub1zcjduc3q7fu03jnlu2xpl75s2nkt7krm6grh4cc5aqth73v0zwmea25wj2hsqhlqzm`

All agents keypairs are stored locally in the `PATH_TO_CYBERD/cli/keys` folder. You can backup this folder to easily migrate between testnets or machines.

**Validators** are actors on the network committing new blocks by submitting their votes. This refers to the node itself, not a single person or a single account. Therefore, the public key here is referring to the nodes public key, not the public key of the agent address.

- `cybervaloper` validator application-level address. It is associated with a public key `cybervalconspub`. This is the address used to identify your validator publicly. The private key associated with this address is used to delegate, unbond, claim rewards, and participate in governance. Generated by cyberdcli on the application level. Application keys are associated with a public key prefixed by `cyberpub` and an address prefixed by cyberd network. Both are derived from account keys generated by cyberdcli keys add. 
  - e.g. `cybervaloper1carzvgq3e6y3z5kz5y6gxp3wpy3qdrv928vyah`

- `cybervalconspub` the public key of node/validator address. The private key associated with this Tendermint PubKey is used to sign prevotes and precommits.
  - Generated when the node is created
  - Get this value with `cyberdcli tendermint show-validator`
  - e.g. `cybervalconspub1zcjduepq0ms2738680y72v44tfyqm3c9ppduku8fs6sr73fx7m666sjztznqzp2emf`

> Note: A validator's operator key is directly tied to an application key, but uses reserved prefixes solely for this purpose: `cybervaloper` and `cybersvaloperpub`.

A nodes keypair is stored in `node_key.json` and `priv_validator_key.json` at `PATH_TO_CYBERD/daemon/config` folder. You can delete them and restart `cyberd` if you want to change this keypair. The new pair will be created automatically. Or you can backup it up and insert in the same folder during a new testnet if you want the same nodes pubkey.

## Generate keys

You'll need an account private and public key pair \(a.k.a. `sk, pk` respectively\) to be able to receive funds, send txs, bond tx, etc.

To generate a new _secp256k1_ key:

```bash
cyberdcli keys add <account_name>
```

Next, you will have to create a passphrase to protect the key on disk. The output of the above
the command will contain a _seed phrase_. It is recommended to save the _seed phrase_ in a safe
place so that in case you forget the password, you could eventually regenerate the key from
the seed phrase with the following command:

```bash
cyberdcli keys add <account_name> --recover
```

Also, you can import your ETH account to `cyberdcli`:

```bash
cyberdcli keys add import_private <account_name>
```
by using the ETH private key

... and Cosmos account by seed phrase:

```bash
cyberdcli keys add <account_name> --recover 
```

cyberdcli provides compatibility of Cosmos and ETH public keys with Cyber addresses.

You can check your application account details by account name:

```bash
cyberdcli keys show <account_name>
```

You can see all of your available keys by typing:

```bash
cyberdcli keys list
```

View the validator pubkey for your node by typing:

```bash
cyberdcli tendermint show-validator
```

Note that this is the Tendermint signing key, _not_ the operator key you will use in delegation transactions.

::: danger Warning
We strongly recommend _NOT_ using the same passphrase for multiple keys. The cyberd team and/or the cyber~Congress team will not be responsible for the loss of funds.
:::

**Important note**: Starting with v.38 cosmos-SDK uses os-native keyring to store all your keys. We've noticed that in certain cases this does not work well by default (for example if you don't have any GUI installed on your machine). If during the execution of the `cyberdcli keys add` command you get this type of error:

```bash
panic: No such interface 'org.freedesktop.DBus.Properties' on object at path /

goroutine 1 [running]:
github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/crypto/keys.keyringKeybase.writeInfo(0x1307a18, 0x1307a10, 0xc000b37160, 0x1, 0x1, 0xc000b37170, 0x1, 0x1, 0x147a6c0, 0xc000f1c780, ...)
    /root/go/pkg/mod/github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk@v0.38.1/crypto/keys/keyring.go:479 +0x38c
github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/crypto/keys.keyringKeybase.writeLocalKey(0x1307a18, 0x1307a10, 0xc000b37160, 0x1, 0x1, 0xc000b37170, 0x1, 0x1, 0x147a6c0, 0xc000f1c780, ...)
    /root/go/pkg/mod/github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk@v0.38.1/crypto/keys/keyring.go:465 +0x189
github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/crypto/keys.baseKeybase.CreateAccount(0x1307a18, 0x1307a10, 0xc000b37160, 0x1, 0x1, 0xc000b37170, 0x1, 0x1, 0x146aa00, 0xc000b15630, ...)
    /root/go/pkg/mod/github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk@v0.38.1/crypto/keys/keybase_base.go:171 +0x192
github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/crypto/keys.keyringKeybase.CreateAccount(...)
    /root/go/pkg/mod/github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk@v0.38.1/crypto/keys/keyring.go:107
github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/client/keys.RunAddCmd(0xc000f0b400, 0xc000f125f0, 0x1, 0x1, 0x148dcc0, 0xc000aca550, 0xc000ea75c0, 0xc000ae1c08, 0x5e93b7)
    /root/go/pkg/mod/github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk@v0.38.1/client/keys/add.go:273 +0xa8b
... etc
```

You will have to use another keyring backend to keep your keys. Here are 2 options: store the files within the cli folder or a `pass` manager.

Setting the keyring backend to a **local file**:

Execute:

```bash
cyberdcli config keyring-backend file
```

As a result you migth see the following: `configuration saved to /root/.cybercli/config/config.toml`

Execute:

```bash
cyberdcli config --get keyring-backend
```

The result should be the following:

```bash
user@node:~# cyberdcli config --get keyring-backend
file
```

This means that you've set your keyring-backend to a local file. *Note*, in this case, all the keys in your keyring will be encrypted using the same password. If you would like to set up a unique password for each key, you should set a unique `--home` folder for each key. To do that, just use `--home=/<unique_path_to_key_folder>/` with setup keyring backend and at all interactions with keys when using cyberdcli:

```bash
cyberdcli config keyring-backend file --home=/<unique_path_to_key_folder>/
cyberdcli keys add <your_second_key_name> --home=/<unique_path_to_key_folder>/
cyberdcli keys list --home=/<unique_path_to_key_folder>/
```

Set keyring backend to [**pass manager**](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/9cce836c08d14dc6836d07164dd964b2b7226f36/crypto/keyring/doc.go#L30):

Pass utility uses a GPG key to encrypt your keys (but again, it uses the same GPG for all the keys). To install and generate your GPG key you should follow [this guide](https://www.passwordstore.org/) or this very [detailed guide](http://tuxlabs.com/?p=450). When you'll get your `pass` set, configure `cyberdcli` to use it as a keyring backend:

```bash
cyberdcli config keyring-backend pass
```

And verify that all set as planned:

```bash
cyberdcli config --get keyring-backend
pass
```

## Generate Multisig Public Keys

You can generate and print a multisig public key by typing:

```bash
cyberdcli keys add --multisig=name1,name2,name3[...] --multisig-threshold=K new_key_name
```

`K` is the minimum number of private keys that must sign the
transactions that carry the address of the public key as signer.

The `--multisig` flag must contain the name of the public keys that will be combined into a
public key that will be generated and stored as `new_key_name` in the local database.
All names supplied through `--multisig` must already exist in the local database. Unless
the flag `--nosort` is set, the order in which the keys are supplied on the command line
does not matter, i.e. the following commands generate two identical keys:

```bash
cyberdcli keys add --multisig=foo,bar,baz --multisig-threshold=2 multisig_address
cyberdcli keys add --multisig=baz,foo,bar --multisig-threshold=2 multisig_address
```

Multisig addresses can also be generated on-the-fly and printed by using this command:

```bash
cyberdcli keys show --multisig-threshold K name1 name2 name3 [...]
```

For more information regarding how to generate, sign and broadcast transactions with a
multi-signature account see [Multisig Guide](./multisig_guide.md).
